PAGE: Steps to Follow
SOURCE: https://sp-ie.metu.edu.tr/en/steps-follow
LAST UPDATED: 20/03/2025

---

BEFORE SUMMER PRACTICE

1. Examine the Summer Practice Website as early as you can, as much as you can.
2. Read the Summer Practice Manual available under the "Documents/Forms" tab on the SP website. It helps decide whether the company satisfies the requirements.
3. Check additional information related with paid insurance or SGK insurance paid by the school on the website.
4. Find a company for summer practice. You may:
   - Check the list of companies that contacted the department for summer practice students.
   - Use your social skills, family, friends, and others to establish contacts.
   - Examine the summer practice databases of earlier years.
5. Some companies request a document (letter) explaining the aim of the internship, minimum duration, and stating that insurance will be paid by METU. You can find the SP Application Letter on the SP website under Documents/Forms tab. Fill out the signed letters with the required information.
6. Some companies may request an SP protocol (sözleşme) form. Under Documents/Forms tab, you can find a sample agreement form. After filling it out, leave the form at the Undergraduate Secretary Office. Pick up the signed form in a week.
7. Make sure you carefully read the instructions for the insurance on the SP website. Apply for your SGK insurance on time.
8. You are ready. Go and start your summer work.

---

DURING SUMMER PRACTICE

1. Attend work with full concentration, be vigilant and observe, try to participate. You will write a detailed report.
2. Regularly take notes to help you write the final report.
3. Prepare a draft version of your report while conducting your practice (you need to upload your report as soon as the new semester starts).
4. Have the "SP Evaluation Form" and "Employer Survey" (see Documents tab) filled out and signed by your SP supervisor.
5. Your SP supervisor can send the "SP Evaluation Form" and "Employer Survey" to the Department Undergraduate Student Affairs by email in pdf format to sp-belge@metu.edu.tr. The document can be signed traditionally or digitally. It can also be sent by post in a closed envelope.
6. If you receive payment during your SP, fill in the "Paid SP Questionnaire" under the IE300/400 course at OCW. Download, print, and sign the Paid Summer Practice Form. Upload the scanned copy (pdf) under the assignment "İşsizlik Fonu Katkısı Bilgi Formu (Paid SP Form)" at OCW.
7. Upload the bank receipt (pdf) showing payment from the company under the OCW assignment "Stajda ücret ödendiğine dair banka dekontu (Bank receipt for paid SPs)".

---

AFTER SUMMER PRACTICE

1. Prepare your report following the Summer Practice Manual (see Documents tab).
2. Register for IE 300 or IE 400 during the registration period.
3. SP reports will be collected via ODTUClass. The deadline will be announced via ODTUClass. This is a strict deadline.
4. The SP report should be prepared in pdf format.
5. The faculty members evaluating the reports will be assigned. Reports will be checked for plagiarism and whether they are generated by AI tools.

---

EVALUATION PROCESS

1. Your SP report will be graded by the assigned faculty members.
2. In the last month of the semester: Reports that require corrections will be returned to students.
3. If your report is returned, you have 2-3 weeks to complete the requested corrections.
4. When done with corrections, return your report to the evaluating faculty via ODTUClass.

---

NOTES

- Make sure the company satisfies the requirements of the Department.
- Make sure you have written the report professionally.
- You may be asked to make corrections on your report.
- Finding a summer practice location is never easy. Try to look for a good one as early as you can.
